The next topic of our today's course is industrial dynamics as a scientific discipline
and the consequences that the discovery of the father of this discipline,
the American scientist J.F. Forrester,
on the modern problems of companies,
primarily in logistics and, above all, in the field of management of stocks and distribution.
First of all, speaking of industrial dynamics,
it should be noted that this discipline was born more than 20 years earlier than the discipline
that is now recognized as the main one in the field of study and management of flow phenomena, that is, logistics.
The birth time of industrial dynamics is 1961.
The birth time of logistics, which became a scientific discipline, is the end of the 1970s, 1978-1979.
A lot of what we now call the logistics approach to the management of a company
was considered, discovered, and described by J.F. Forrester based on the dynamic modeling of a company,
which is an investigation of a company as an information system with feedback.
This research provides for the application of models for the design and improvement of the organization and the improvement of the general leadership.
Dynamic modeling was based on the following four directions.
The theory of management of information systems with feedback,
automation of tactical solutions, experimental design of complex systems with the help of modeling and application of the ancestors of modern computers,
the so-called digital computing machines, to reduce cost and improve the quality of computing.
The book by J.F. Forrester, the foundation of cybernetics of the company, published in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1961,
was significantly different from many scientific works of that time, including the well-known book by Stephen Weir,
which was about the development of cybernetics and production management,
because it was the first attempt to synthesize the current scientific flow and provide comprehensive information on the production and management of a company.
Using the cognitive capabilities of J.F. Forrester, which are the methods of formalization and modeling of the processes studied.
It should be noted that the Massachusetts Institute of Technology developed the so-called industrial dynamics in 1956.
Since 1957, there was a special group that conducted research on this problem under the guidance of J.F. Forrester.
What is industrial dynamics in the terms of Professor Forrester?
Industrial dynamics is a set of methods that consider the interaction between the flows of information, money, applications, materials,
human resources and capital equipment in a company, industry or national economy.
Industrial dynamics provides a single basis for integrating functional areas of management,
such as marketing, production, accounting, financial accounting, research and project activities, as well as capital investment.
It is a huge layer of management science.
It should be noted that Professor Forrester was the first to see the importance of studying the flow phenomena in the management of enterprises,
as soon as technical capabilities appeared.
Forrester considered the formal analogies and cybernetic concepts of building an adequate dynamic model of such a complex complex system as an industrial enterprise to be insufficient.
He opposed, offering them a new method of modeling enterprises as a dynamic economic system,
with a conventional cybernetic view, which did not take into account the flow, the time duration of the phenomenon.
He considered the changing behavior of industrial enterprises in order to develop the perfect forms of their organization and the overall leadership of their activities.
In this dynamic modeling is integrated into a single structural scheme of the functional management industry, as a kind of feedback system.
In his model, Forrester used six parameters, six interconnected flows that reflected the activities of an industrial enterprise.
Five of them are already listed in the definition. These are the flows of materials, orders, money, equipment, labor.
The sixth information flow is the connecting tissue that connects the five others.
The behavior of the feedback information system is determined by its structure, as well as by the elements of the time lags,
that is, the delay of the system's reaction to the irritants, and the amplifications experienced by the corresponding flows in relation to the input and output times.
The dynamic structure of the model is represented by a number of reservoirs or levels connected by the flows controlled by each other.
Forrester wrote, the basic structure consisting of variable levels and flows reflects the existence of the management system of industrial enterprises.
It should be noted the peculiarity of the quantitative approach of J.F. Forrester to the modeling of production and economic processes.
These views are closely connected with the views of the economist of the early 20th century, Kondratiev,
who fought all possible scientific methods against the dictatorship of numbers.
Professor Forrester is not inclined to engage in mathematical interpretations of formalization of the studied processes.
His formulas have a structural advantage, not elementary in mathematical relation.
The methodology of analysis of the production-economic model includes six stages.
First, a specific production-economic question is determined, which is subject to analysis by the method of dynamic modeling.
The result is formulated in the verbal, not mathematical, expression.
The main connections or causal dependence characterize the structure of the studied system.
The third stage is the construction of a mathematical model.
Each part of this model is created on the basis of a graphical system, expressing the content of the previous stage.
The fourth stage is the design of behavior of the modeled system or its changes in time under the influence of certain factors.
The fifth stage is the imitation of the dynamics of the system on digital computers.
The results are compared with the data on similar real processes, i.e. with what is now called mathematical statistics.
The sixth stage is the inclusion of the revised parameters in the model of the subsequent modeling on computer technology to determine their impact on the final results.
In the 1960s, the California Management Review magazine described the methodology of dynamic modeling proposed by Forrester.
In this method, all the activity of the enterprise is imitated on a large digital computer.
The mathematical model consists of hundreds of cascaded, sequentially solved equations.
The enterprise, like a radio circuit, contains feedback, which enhances input signals and regulates the periodicity of outgoing signals.
With some rather ordinary conditions, the random change in the number of orders by plus or minus 5% can cause a periodic fluctuation in the supply level by 15%,
the volume of production and the number of workforce by more than 25%.
In accordance with this recognition, which the Forrester model received in the practical sphere in the 1960s,
the concept of Forrester effect remained in logistics and operational management.
We will talk about it in more detail.
Look at the following slide.
The Forrester effect, otherwise called the Ball Whip effect, is formulated as follows.
Minor disturbances in one part of the logistics system can be quickly increased in further distribution along the logistics channel.
Look at the following slide.
This is what the logistics system looks like.
It consists of production, supply and output,
optical links in the distribution, supply and output in the distribution channels,
retail distribution links, up to the end consumer.
The Forrester effect describes a situation when the result of the influence of sales is the creation of conditions for the launch of an accelerating effect and the creation of a wave in the logistics channel.
This happens because moisture occurs in most logistics systems,
i.e. the system's reaction to an input signal or to changes is carried out with a time delay.
Thus, in the presence of a warehouse or a mediator in the logistics channel, which stores goods, a significant distortion of demand in the factory can occur.
This will occur due to the accelerating effect, which can cause the arbitrary fluctuation of the operating characteristics of the system.
Let's look at this example.
It is quite elementary, so that we do not even have to consider it.
For example, a production company sells its products to a wholesaler, and it implements them to retail traders.
Let's look at the increasing effect of the distribution of indignation in the logistics channel.
The policy of customer service, which is adopted by the company, requires the creation of, for example, an eight-week reserve when production is carried out.
At the same time, the car has a 12-week reserve, and each of the retail traders has a three-week stock of goods.
The system is made up of only three links.
And what amazing results and functioning there are.
As a result of the measures to stimulate the sale, the demand of end consumers is increasing by 10% per month.
An elementary situation for a first-year student.
However, if a retailer does not want to allow a decrease in its previous level of service, it must increase the size of the stock not by 10%, but by 11%.
That is, the original 10% plus 10 multiplied by 3 divided by 52.
Three weeks out of 52.
In order to save the three-week stock.
The retailer faces an increase in demand by 11%, which, when adjusting the level of its stock, will lead to an increase in the size of the order by 13%.
11 plus 11 multiplied by 2 divided by 52.
The manufacturer, striving to satisfy demand and save its eight-week stock, must increase the release of goods by 15%.
That is, the initial increase in the real demand for 10% led to a growth of production by 15%.
And this is just a three-link chain of distribution.
You can learn more about the interaction and interaction of links with the household chain using the materials in the workbook.
Please look at the overall chart, which shows the spread of the wave similar to the bend of a tail, which a trainer drives wild animals.
So, dear listeners, let's consider how the effect that was discovered almost half a century ago still spoils the lives of many enterprises.
It should be noted that in traditional production and logistics management systems, all enterprises are considered as isolated elements that independently plan their needs and purchases.
At the same time, as we saw in the previous example, there is a significant deviation and fluctuation in the entire holistic chain.
Local optimization, disagreement with the actions of the participants of this chain and, above all, insufficient information exchange lead to the so-called BALWIP effect.
I repeat that this effect is a situation in which minor changes in the demand of the end consumer lead to a significant deviation in the plans of other participants of the logistics chain.
Subcontractors, suppliers, outsourcers, distributors, dealers, etc.
When the tail effect is identified, the continuous movement of the material and information flows in the logistics chain is disrupted, thus causing the risk of failure to fulfill the client's orders.
Once, Procter & Gamble specialists, and this company can be said only one thing, that it is always the number one supplier of any network, whether it is Oshan, Walmart, Carrefour or any other.
Procter & Gamble is the largest supplier.
So, the specialists of this serious, large, rich company asked the question, why is the size of the orders received by the company so much higher than that of one of the most sold goods, the children's diapers.
After all, their consumption by the end customer, that is, by infants, is evenly, constantly, easily predicted.
After studying the statistics, first, the sales of retail stores, second, the orders received by distributors, third, the orders received by the company from distributors,
and finally, the orders that Procter & Gamble places at the suppliers of raw materials, the company managers were surprised to find that the fluctuation of the orders' volumes is increasing as the supply chain moves up.
It was then, and it happened in 1992, that this phenomenon was called the tail effect.
Its graphic illustration is shown on the slide.
The hypothesis was put forward that this effect is due to the irrationality of making a decision to replenish and form stocks.
That is, when there is a sharp surge in incoming orders, the managers are inclined to reassure themselves and place such an order, so that it will satisfy the increased demand with some allowance.
So as not to write documents again, not to request, not to wait.
When such an increased order arrives, naturally, after a while, the surge of interest in the product, as a rule, already gives way to a decline, and the stock is overstocked.
Therefore, the next order will be either delayed until the remaining stock is spent, or significantly reduced in volume.
The supplier of the product, receiving such uneven orders, builds forecasts with an even greater spread of values, and tasks its supplier of components with even greater jumps.
That is, the normal logarithmic distribution described by the Gauss curve is gaining more and more flat shapes.
However, a close look at the problem showed that the problem is not only in the behavioral characteristics of those people who are responsible for determining the needs.
The tail effect has a number of objective reasons.
Among them, errors in forecasting demand can be highlighted.
Dear colleagues, trust in forecasts is already being tested.
The fact is that the strategic forecast is already a 2-year forecast.
What will be next is hard to predict.
Any forecast has a very unpleasant feature, with the rise of the forecasting horizon, and the accuracy is falling.
With the rise of the forecast detail, the accuracy is falling.
To deal with uncertainty in forecasting, enterprises create additional insurance reserves.
The stock is always the basis of risk management in logistics.
This leads to an arbitrary increase in the size of the batches of deliveries.
This is facilitated by the aspiration of logistics units to transport the supplied raw materials in large batches to achieve the scale effect.
The next reason is instability of the global market prices.
An important reason is a delay in obtaining the necessary information about the needs, and, in the end, a deviation from the planned delivery times and volumes.
Each company forms a plan of its orders based on forecasting the demand of its customers.
We have already discussed this.
As a rule, the forecast is based on data from the previous period.
The statistical methods of processing data extrapolate the data of rising and falling trends a little further, beyond the real limit of the rise and fall of demand.
But extrapolation is extrapolation.
Taking into account this error in both the direction of increase and decrease, the company forms its orders to the supplier.
At the same time, it also comes from the level of its current reserves, subtracting or adding the volume of orders that were exceeded or not received in the previous order.
Accordingly, the supplier, analyzing the time series of orders, forecasts its needs with even greater demand.
You will find evidence of this in the following slide.
In practice, it is very difficult to find a company that would unambiguously transform incoming orders into outgoing orders without processing and generalization.
Of course, we are talking about Just-in-Time systems and their birth, because their application requires very specific working conditions.
The demand of the company's customers is formed by a set of incoming data for the reserve management system,
which at the output gives a solution for when and how many goods need to be purchased and what assortment positions.
As a rule, customer orders are consolidated up to the minimum order size that can correspond to either the optimal reserve size,
in accordance with the famous Wilson formula, or the load normalization of the vehicle, the so-called full transit load.
The larger the order size and the less orders are made, the greater the degree of deviation.
On the other hand, the company can observe large jumps in the demand of its customers,
which will later lead to a high degree of uncertainty of demand.
Based on the X, Y, Z analysis, the observed phenomena will be in the category of Y,
and the price of information transparency is such.
In fact, the company analyzes not the total demand of its customers, but the flow of orders,
each of which is formed based on individual reserve replenishment systems.
In this case, the transformed demand has a pronounced inequality, which is shown in the following slide.
In the following slide, you can see all three reasons for the tail effect.
This is an increasing error in forecasting, consolidation of orders, and price policy.
We will talk about price policy now.
Excessive fluctuations in demand can be provoked by this phenomenon, which is primarily responsible for by the marketing service.
The period of price reduction by special promotions, both above the level and below the level,
usually attracts many customers who, in an attempt to benefit from the so-called fallen chance,
form speculative reserves.
Naturally, after the end of the promotion, the decline in orders follows,
and customers begin to spend their reserves, possibly waiting for the next period of discounts.
The situation is also mentioned in the West Press, when in the conditions of a deficit,
customers submit deliberately overstated applications in response to their partial implementation policy.
And when the level of supply finally catches up with demand, the order cancellation follows.
The same picture was typical for the Soviet supply system, especially at the last, stagnating stage of its development.
In modern market conditions, a repeat of this model is unlikely to be possible.
The Forester effect, the tail effect, has a negative effect on the efficiency of the operation of all supply chain participants.
First of all, because it provokes an accumulation of excessive safety reserves for each chain participant.
Therefore, the development of measures to smooth this effect is one of the most relevant logistic tasks.
First of all, logistics of purchases and logistics of reserves.
There are several approaches to its solution.
One of them is the use of advanced technologies.
The basis of this approach is a complex information interaction between the supply chain participants,
which allows for automated analysis of the final demand.
For example, if a manufacturer has access to data on the sales of its products directly from the trade halls,
it will be easy to predict the volume it should unload to the distribution center supplying this retail chain.
This technology is implemented by Walmart.
Walmart, based on the information that comes from the so-called point of sales,
which is just a cash register with the cash register owner at the exit from the store's trade hall,
sends 100 of its largest suppliers every day, and the first is Procter & Gamble.
Information on the real demand for their products.
This is how information should be used to build a supply chain.
Modern information technology and the ERP class allow for this method.
In Russia, the construction of a managed supply chain has its own peculiarities.
Supply chains are built and managed mainly within the framework of holdings.
When individual elements of the chain are connected by the right to property,
and the possibility of direct control.
This is connected with a very serious information closeness of the business,
low discipline of contractual relations, and a number of negative reasons,
which are typical of Russian business at the current stage.
Another option, compared to the ones listed in the table,
is the possibility of information integration based on the work with the providers of logistic services of the 4PL class.
This is the so-called work on technology VMI, Vendors Managed Inventory, or CMI, Co-Managed Inventory.
The seller manages the stock of his client on his own.
The advantage of this approach is obvious, as it eliminates the very basis of the tail effect.
However, the implementation of such technology requires not only serious financial investments,
but also a high degree of information integration.
This is possible only with the maturity of the company and the maturity of the business environment as a whole.
Unfortunately, there are only a few such companies in Russia.
I think, only a few, even if you count them by the fingers, even with two hands.
However, there is an opportunity to use the administrative resource of a company that is the key in the supply chain.
Each supply chain has a leader, or a so-called focus company,
which determines the policy of the entire chain as a link with the greatest weight.
In the chain, the manufacturer, distributor, retail trader,
with such a link, most often, since recently, becomes the manufacturer,
who is able to strictly prescribe to the distributor when and how many goods he should buy.
The obligation to choose a certain quota along with a restriction on the purity of orders
and the possibility of correcting the purchase plan leads to the organization of a convenient, predictable for the manufacturer.
All risks and numerous uncertainties in this case are simply transferred to the lower links.
The future of such an approach is doubtful precisely because of this.
At least because the dictator company usually has a mediocre and very vague idea
of the real demand for its products and is unlikely to fully realize its market potential.
In addition, recently, there has been a tendency to shift the influence in the supply chain towards network retailers.
So what to do with a company that does not have a solid information platform,
unprogressed relations with partners, and the inability to dictate its conditions to the agent?
The advice is as always, one, as always, it works in any business sphere.
This is to show vigilance, ingenuity, and patience.
First, you need to understand the real nature of the demand fluctuations.
For example, the X, Y, Z analysis already mentioned will allow the customers
to identify a group of customers with a stable level of consumption.
If the volumes of orders jump from such customers to the majority,
there is a low-coordinated flow of orders that creates an illusion of unequality of demand.
As soon as the causes of the distortion of the real demand are found, action can be taken.
Possible options are indicated in the slides.
This list is open for replenishment, because the establishment of effective interaction with customers and suppliers is not exhausted.
No matter how it is promoted by formal science, it is partly in the field of art. Art is negotiated.
Dear colleagues, we will now continue our course on the theory of limitations of Israeli physicist Eliyahu Goldratt.
But first I would like to quote two statements of great people, each in their own way.
The first was called Albert Einstein, who said that no problem can be solved at the same level of thought development as we have created it.
The conclusion is that every new phenomenon, whether favorable or unfavorable,
will require new efforts, discoveries, and research, which will help our knowledge to rise to a new level.
The second statement, which I called the postulate of Reinhold Messner,
Reinhold Messner is the first Italian climber to conquer all the 8000-meter mountains on Earth alone, using minimal equipment.
Therefore, he probably knew what to say when he said that the pace of ascent is set by the slowest member of the group.
The technology and tools of enterprise management are developing at an amazing pace today.
But another thing is even more amazing.
The basis of management thinking still has the views, beliefs, and stereotypes that have not changed significantly in the last few decades.
The solution of the entire complex of problems of a modern enterprise is impossible with only technical means.
The improvement of the level of IT technology, the improvement of management, means, first of all, to raise management thinking to a new level.
The basis of the theory of limitations is the desire to translate the answers from the plane of what and how to the plane of what, how, and why.
The theory of limitations strives to raise management thinking to a new level, returning to simple and clear objective laws.
Dear colleagues, if your company has constant breaks in the order execution, a long production cycle, low profitability of the invested capital, excessive reserves, irregular and over-the-counter work in production that has become regular,
your production plan is often crossed. You are chronically short of one or the other resources, you are not ready to take more and more orders, and this leads to tensions and conflicts in the team.
If you have tried different approaches, but the economic result does not suit you, you have a serious problem.
The possible solution that I will tell you about after the next list of possible troubles and troubles.
If your company has many overdue and incomplete deliveries, frequent shortages of some goods in excess of others, irregular and out-of-plan orders for production, high return levels or writing off of finished products, low turnover of reserves,
and you have tried different approaches, but the economic result does not suit you, if you have a chronic overuse of funds for projects, excessive long periods of their implementation, chaotic movement of resources and priorities between projects or works,
regular night shifts that separate you and your employees from your loved ones, and a lack of readiness to take new projects, if you have tried different approaches, but the economic result does not suit you, try to apply the limitation theory
The main postulate of the limitation theory is that all types of activities in the logistics chain can be defined as narrow-space and non-narrow-space.
The production time of the entire system is determined by the types of activities that create narrow spaces.
This leads to the creation of unnecessary reserves in narrow places. The limitation theory is not an economic direction, but a universal philosophy developed by Ilya Kovdrat, management of complex systems
That is widely known and successfully applied by many companies for almost 20 years. Ilya Kovdrat is a scientist and consultant, a writer and entrepreneur in one person.
But above all, he is a thinker, who makes others think. Kovdrat persuasively and convincingly calls on his audience, which I also treated, which I hope you will treat, to look at the usual activity of others
The limitation theory goes back to the mid-1970s, to the computer program developed by Kovdrat, Optimized Production Timetables.
Back then, this scientist stated that manufacturers do not develop production timetables efficiently and do not manage resources and material stocks of their enterprises successfully.
To solve this problem, he and his associates from Creative Output developed software that allows operation timetables, taking production capacity into account, equipment, equipment, equipment, equipment, equipment, equipment, equipment, instruments, materials, and other limitations.
which affect the company's ability to operate without lag.
The timetables in OOPT are executed precisely.
They can be run on a computer in parts, that is, in the same time periods as the MRP system that is already mentioned in our courses.
All this became possible because the timetable was based on the operation limits in narrow production chains,
in other words, on insufficient resources and on excess resources of production flow.
To simplify understanding of timetables, Dr. Goldratt provides 9 main production planning rules.
Let's consider them.
When planning your enterprise, do not try to balance power, but try to balance flow.
The degree of use of excess resources is determined not by their potential, but by other limitations in the system.
The use and activation of resources are not the same.
An hour lost in a narrow place, that is, on insufficient resources, is an hour lost in the whole system.
While an hour saved on excess resources is nothing more than a mirage that gives nothing to your enterprise as a whole.
Perhaps only an increase in salary or a bonus to a separate employee.
The performance and level of the material stock of the system is determined by insufficient resources.
The transfer rate should not necessarily be equal to the processing rate, and in some cases this is simply unacceptable.
The size of the processing rate should not change throughout the technological route, neither in the time scale nor in the distance scale.
Priorities should be determined and set only on the basis of the results of the system's research and limitations.
The production time is determined by a specific schedule based on the study of the limitations.
There are many disputes around this program, and they continue to this day.
It was not only one of the first programs of the so-called final planning of production, which dominated the entire field of production activities.
Its uniqueness was that it embodied new concepts that clearly contradicted some traditional rules of management.
In practice, it turned out that these new concepts became even more effective than the OOPT program itself.
And at that time, OOPT ceased to be just a computer program and turned into a new approach to management.
It was by expanding the boundaries of this approach that Dr. Goldratt developed the theory of constraints,
which gained great popularity as a method of solving problems in many areas of business.
One of the co-authors of Dr. Goldratt, the Israeli economist Emi Schragenheim, said that the theory of constraints is a unique philosophy of management
based on common sense and scientific approach. It allows to simplify the perception of complex social systems and maintain the controllability of all their main aspects.
In the famous edition called Epics Dictionary by James Cox, the co-author of several of Goldratt's works,
it is said that the philosophy of management developed by Goldratt, which can be divided into three separate but interconnected areas,
logistics, system of indicators, and logical thinking, helps 90% of companies that applied.
The theory of constraints is a multifaceted philosophy of management, a systematic rethinking of many fundamental beliefs
that show that they are nothing more than preconceptions. This theory is a new approach to solving complex problems.
The theory of constraints is known under other names, such as CM, Constraint Management,
as well as synchronous flow manufacturing, SFM, synchronous production, or OOPT.
These names are often used as synonyms of the theory of constraints, but earlier stages of its development will be more accurate,
unlike later ones characterized by the application of thinking processes.
Unlike many economists, Goldratt did not limit himself to technical tools, but developed a unique set of thinking processes
Logistic, logical, semantic, systematic thinking methods that allow for a unique solution and continuous improvement of the organization
If not to avoid such a painful procedure as reengineering of business processes, then to minimize the negative effects of this process
The essence of thinking processes is the systematic application of logical analysis to social systems, which is the organization.
Using them allows to simplify the description of complex systems, the interconnection between their elements,
while improving the general perception and understanding of systems as a whole.
The main steps that must be applied when using Goldratt's theory of constraints can be seen in the following slide.
The book on the theory of constraints is considered a textbook.
The book by Ilya Goldratt is called The Goal, which is a production novel.
It has been published in millions, translated into several dozen languages, and has received the award from the World Trade Chamber as the best book on management in the last 15 years.
This is the first book on business written in the form of a novel.
The main character of this story is a factory manager of a fictional company, Unico, Alex Rogo is in a rather difficult position.
For three months he has to not only increase the productivity of the company, which is always late with orders,
and therefore loses customers, but also save the factory from closure and its workplace.
Alex is struggling with the excess of supplies, late orders, and the asynchronous operation of the production facilities of his factory.
He is being helped and instructed by a guru, a physicist of the UN.
Goldratt himself is easily guessed in this character.
He is a professor of physics, and has several dozen Israeli and American international patents.
The results of the book achieved by the main characters are not fictional.
This is what real companies have achieved, which use the theory of limitations.
Goldratt's books are not only published, they are spent on millions of copies.
For example, in Japan, the target for a total copy was four times higher than Harry Potter's.
The theory of limitations is being studied today in more than 200 business schools around the world.
Goldratt himself has long since become his own limitation.
His schedule of master classes and consulting projects requires the achievement of the limits of human abilities.
Those who stand up to the struggle with the limitations, Goldratt not only promises, but also fixes contracts for consulting services,
that in less than four years their annual profit is equal to the current annual turnover.
At the same time, despite the aviator's interest in the theory, Goldratt admits that only 5% of production companies in the world actually apply it.
It's like the Bible. Many believe, but few practice it in their everyday life.
The technology of thought processes allows to deal with problems.
It is described by Goldratt in his book, The Goal 2. The case is not in luck.
In the second series of the production novel, Alex Rogov already heads three companies that are included in the conglomerate.
His tasks have become more complex. He has three months to make them profitable.
To answer his difficult questions, such as customer needs, investment potential, strategy of holding,
he uses the thought processes, a set of well-known tools that allow to simplify and organize the description of complex systems.
Goldratt didn't invent the principles of thinking. He just used well-known tools of logic to solve new problems.
Having mastered the thought processes, the organization can answer three key questions of management.
What to change, what to change, and how to make changes.
The main difference between the theory of limitation and other management concepts is the ability to identify the point of application of efforts.
Having identified the direction of impact, the organization is constantly improving its activities, significantly saving investments.
Goldratt calls his theory the concept of natural simplicity of the system.
He says that companies, like social systems, are not so different from natural physical systems.
And the principles of the world are more universal than they are considered.
We'll talk about the system approach. You'll find the basis of the theory of limitation in the applicable workbook.
What I like as a specialist who studied the theory of limitation seriously is that it is simple.
The simplicity of dividing the limitation. Limitation in volumes and limitation in politics. Everything is logical.
The actions of the manager are described in the case of volume limitations. And the system approach is visible.
What I like about this theory is the simplicity and logic.
What is the system approach to management?
There are two global approaches to the creation and management of an organization.
I'll call them the master approach and the system approach.
The master approach is that to achieve the tasks in front of the organization, it relies on experts.
We'll call them masters. In such organizations, the following phenomenon can be found.
The managers are the actors.
Everything that happens in the organization happens only thanks to the managers, who often wear several hats at the same time.
The line between those who produce and those who manage is blurred by processes.
The managers personally control the process of work.
The managing director or the president of the company basically plays the role of either the dispatcher or the chief expeditor, in the best case.
Pushing through the late orders.
Almost no order goes on time if it is not under the personal control of the management.
For the organization of daily activities to meet the needs of customers, the company relies on several key figures.
The key figures are the managers.
The training period of the position is very long and similar to the student's.
Since the system is absent, before the manager fully masters his position, he must be on it for a long time
To go through most of the situations and learn to react to them correctly.
A simple example of an organization built on this approach is a small family restaurant in the neighborhood.
As soon as the owners are absent for a while, we notice that the kitchen has become worse, the service is not so friendly, and not so clean.
We make sure that the master is not there.
What does the approach to the master lead to?
The managers spend more time working inside the process, not above it.
As a result, when the managers and experts leave the organization, it is not able to function at the same level as before.
The system approach does not rely on experts.
The managers make an effort to create a reliable process of organization management, a process that can be taught to others.
The managers develop the business model as if they were going to distribute it through the franchising mechanism.
When the recipient acquires the franchise from the franchiser, not only by acquiring the name, but also by the policy with specific processes for successful business.
In organizations based on the family approach, you will find the following.
Daily activity to satisfy the needs of the client is conducted by the system itself.
The business is practically on autopilot, without direct intervention from the management.
The managers' efforts are focused almost exclusively on planning the future.
The goal of the training is to train the system.
The example of a business based on a system approach is McDonald's.
Regardless of what you think about the food offered at McDonald's, you can always buy the promised quality of the product at an acceptable price and quickly.
It is no secret that McDonald's is one of the most successful firms in the history of business.
It has achieved the goal of a system approach, consistency and reliability.
It is rare that an organization follows only one or another approach.
As a rule, this is something in between.
And yet, in many new and fast-growing firms, in many fast-growing countries, the elements of the approach of a master prevail in business management.
The owners of the firm and directors of young enterprises are usually deeply involved in the implementation of the processes.
They are constantly busy with what makes the wheels spin.
And the bigger the firm, the more difficult it is to keep all processes under control.
How often do we hear the slander that competent managers are not enough, that there is no one to delegate responsibility, that everyone must be checked personally.
And it takes too much time.
And we also often hear that effective management depends on competent management, more than any other factor.
Some go even further and call management skills art.
At the same time, we all clearly realize that the approach of a master is a serious obstacle for the growth of existing firms and for the circulation of entrepreneurial success in new companies.
Why is it difficult to manage business organizations as systems?
Let's repeat what a system is.
We will assume that a system is a certain number of interconnected elements that jointly participate in a certain process.
In the process of operation, the system takes a certain input and processes it, and produces a certain output.
In the process of input-output transfer, the system creates an added value.
We can conclude that the so-called system passage, the term of the city is a measure of the value of the system.
Why is it difficult to manage business organizations as systems?
Because there are two factors connected to each other, two global, universal problems.
The first problem is complexity and uncertainty.
An organization consisting of more than seven people is already a complex system.
Complex in the sense that it is difficult to predict what consequences will have on various units of the organization.
Due to the huge number of interactions between people and departments, it is difficult to establish causal-consequential connections.
The second problem is uncertainty.
The existence of uncertainty within the organization means that any decision or action can lead to various results.
The interaction of these two factors makes many managers believe that managing a business is more of an art than a science.
How do we approach managing complex systems?
We break them down into subsystems.
Each of the subsystems is less complex than the system as a whole.
If we have doubts about whether this is our approach to management, look at the scheme of your organizational structure.
The fragmentation of the system into subsystems has its own price.
It leads to desynchronization, to the practice of local optimums, to the local mentality.
Since our systems are incredibly complex, it seems that all we can do is to minimize this price.
To do everything possible to improve synchronization.
As long as we believe that the only way to improve the management model is to achieve a sharp growth in revenue in a relatively short period of time,
it will seem to us that it is impossible to bring the company to increase in revenue in less than four years.
I will sell it to you today.
In order to see the true potential of the company, it is necessary to look at the concept of complexity of systems in more depth.
It is often difficult to manage our systems because the impact on one of the components causes consequences in others.
The causes of the consequences, in fact, turn the system into a labyrinth.
But this gives the key to the solution.
Let's imagine it this way.
Let's take a particular problem and ask a question.
What is the minimum number of points to touch to influence the whole system?
If the answer is 10, it is difficult to manage such a system, it has too many degrees of freedom.
If the answer is 1, this system has one degree of freedom and it is easy to manage.
Do you agree that the more dependencies there are between different components, the less degrees of freedom this system has?
The fact that your system is extremely complex means that it is managed by a small number of elements.
In order to maximize this natural simplicity, we need to find those elements that manage the whole system.
Such elements that determine the results of the system's activities are its limitations.
As I said, the managers are not able to handle the complexity of the whole system, so they divide it into sub-systems.
Organizations are divided into divisions, departments, and parts of the organization are managed as separate small systems.
This is the most widespread way of management.
An experienced manager knows this well. This method of managing the complexity of an organization has serious negative consequences.
When each sub-system is managed as an independent system, there is a tendency to set goals and set rules based on local interests.
Everyone knows that saving money in one department can lead to huge losses in another.
Since sub-systems are in interaction, their local tasks and rules are conflicted.
What looks good for one department may seem negative for others.
Everyone is familiar with the conflict situation between logistics and marketing.
Synchronizing logistics and marketing work against the background of an emotional context of conflict becomes problematic.
In this case, synchronization cannot be talked about. We are talking about sub-optimization.
In many cases, sub-optimization is a problem with managing a business organization.
Any local solution, possibly the best one, can intensify the impact of external uncertainty and harm the whole system.
We have come across a real paradox.
In order to reduce the complexity and control variability, an organization is divided into small manageable parts.
Local management, however, increases the complexity and creates uncertainty.
Local management is worse than the disease itself.
If we consider a business organization as a system, we must admit that it is oriented towards achieving a certain goal.
What is the company's goal? Obviously, to make money.
That is why the company is created and invested.
If we take into account that companies do not work on their own, that there is competition,
and that companies stagnating at one level will soon be displaced,
we must admit that the company's goal is a more complex task.
Making money now and in the future.
That is why managers strive to improve the financial performance of the organization.
The combination of three conditions.
The fact that the company is divided into smaller parts.
The fact that people are influenced by what is under their control.
The fact that for most departments local costs are the only thing under direct control of the managers.
The fact that the focus of the attention of the majority of managers is focused on local costs.
When we say that the company's main task is to make money, it is not quite so.
The most important thing is the so-called throughput.
This is the money that the system creates by transferring the input to the output and selling it to the client.
Why does throughput matter?
In the context of the system approach to management, there are two reasons to consider increasing the throughput as the number one priority.
Unlike reducing costs to the limit of zero, increasing this number as a way to improve the financial results has no theoretical limit.
The second reason is that increasing the throughput implies a completely opposite logic to achieving the system's improvement.
Let's consider an analogy with the goal.
The throughput is only at the very end of the chain as a result of the efforts made by all links.
If one of the links in the supply chain drops a ball, the entire chain is at risk.
Moving the focus of costs to the throughput is the same as moving the focus of the chain's weight to its strength.
What determines the strength of the chain?
Of course, its weakest link.
If you, for example, improve any other link, even if you increase its strength by several times, will this increase the overall strength of the chain?
No, of course not.
As soon as you make a certain throughput, you immediately realize that most of the improvements in most links do not contribute to the improvement of the chain.
The global optimum is not the sum of local optimums.
Thus, we are forever forgiving the system for how business was done for almost the entire 20th century.
The key idea of the limitation theory is that each system oriented to achieving the goal has a very small number of limitations.
Based on this position, it is obvious that the management of the system should be focused on the management of the limitation of the system.
Limitations are divided into two types, limitations in volumes and limitations in policy.
If we talk about limitations in volumes, then our ability to make more money is limited by the physical resources inside our company.
Management limitations take place when our ability to make more money is limited by some internal rules or procedures based on the wrong initial shipment
regarding how to manage or how to do business with customers for suppliers.
Let's take the first type of limitation, limitations in volumes, and consider how the process of improving the organization should be carried out according to the logic of the world of throughput.
The first is to find the limitation of the system.
We must answer the question of what we lack and what we should do to make more money.
The limitation can be internal, resource or external, market or supplier.
Sometimes it is not easy to find a real limitation.
The instability of the suboptimization created does not allow us to clearly see the whole picture.
For this, we need to stabilize the system.
The second step of the GovDrat system is to decide how to maximize the use of this limitation.
Maximizing the use does not mean the complete exhaustion of the resource or its exploitation, which will lead to its resolution.
This means the discharge of the resource from the task, which can be performed by other resources, or the elimination of variations and stops of the process, caused by the lack of proper focus.
The third step is to fix the entire main system to the above-mentioned solution.
This will require a very difficult struggle, primarily with the mentality of local optimum.
This is the stage at which most of the limitations in politics are revealed.
They must be replaced by new rules, the rules of synchronized flow.
When we have achieved the full use of the existing system in the first three steps,
it is time to find a way to increase the limiting power.
The next step is to develop the limitation of the system.
If the limitation is inside the system, we must invest in the limitation, or add people, or find alternative ways to compensate for the power of the resources we use.
If the limitation is on the market, we must create a mutually beneficial offer for the supplier, from which they will not be able to refuse.
The process of improving the entire chain by improving one specific link has its logical end.
We have made this link strong enough, and we must take the next step.
That is, we must take five steps again.
If the limitation was eliminated during the previous step, we will return to step number one.
Dear colleagues, I will be very pleased, and I think it will be useful for you,
if you read the basics of the limitation theory in detail in the workbook.
Now let's summarize the results of our course today.
We have considered the main areas of the placement of production and service facilities,
the placement of processes, we have seen what J.F. Forrester's work in the field of industrial dynamics is,
and how this theory, which was born 50 years ago, is relevant today.
We have touched on the main areas of the limitation theory of Eliahu Gowdrat,
which, in my opinion, is one of the most effective modern systems.
Thank you very much for your attention. I hope we will meet again.